README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://github.com/CorvusCodex/Football-ai-prediction/blob/main/footballailogo.png?raw=true">
</p>

## FootballAi

FootballAi is a football prediction artificial intelligence that uses machine learning to predict the winning team of the next football match.

## For people without technical experience you can buy the compiled standalone application for windows from here:
https://www.buymeacoffee.com/CorvusCodex/e/154775?from_page=extras

## Installation

To install FootballAi, you will need to have Python 3.x and the following libraries installed:
- numpy
- tensorflow
- keras
- art

You can install these libraries using pip by running the following command:

'''pip install numpy tensorflow keras art'''

## Usage

To use FootballAi, you will need to have a data file containing past football results. This file should be in a comma-separated format, with each row representing a single match and the numbers, rows are in new line without comma. Team 1 must be on the left and team 2 on the right side.

Once you have the data file, you can run the `footballai.py` script to train the model and generate prediction. The script will print the generated winner to the console.

### Automatically build the dataset from NFL results

The repository now includes `nfl_data_fetcher.py`, a helper utility that downloads historical head-to-head scores for any two NFL teams using ESPN's public schedule endpoint (no API key required). The script appends the scores to `data.txt` in the `team1_score,team2_score` format that the neural network expects.

Run the tool from the project root:

```bash
python nfl_data_fetcher.py
```

You will be presented with a numbered list of all 32 franchises. Pick the two teams you want to analyse and optionally enter the seasons to include (defaults to the last five years). After the results have been added to `data.txt` you can launch the training script immediately when prompted, or exit and run `python footballai.py` later.

The helper also exposes a few optional command-line flags so you can automate data pulls:

```bash
python nfl_data_fetcher.py --team1 1 --team2 2 --seasons 2020-2023
```

* `--team1` / `--team2` – select franchises by their numeric identifier (see the on-screen table).
* `--seasons` – fetch a comma separated list (`2021,2023`) or range (`2019-2022`) of NFL seasons.
* `--cache-dir` – path to a folder where downloaded ESPN schedule responses should be cached. When set (or when the `NFL_DATA_FETCHER_CACHE_DIR` environment variable is defined) the script reuses local JSON files instead of hitting the network. This repository ships with `sample_data/`, which contains a small cached example so the tool can be demonstrated in completely offline environments:

```bash
python nfl_data_fetcher.py --team1 1 --team2 2 --seasons 2022 --cache-dir sample_data --skip-train
```

Use `--skip-train` if you only want to update the dataset without immediately re-running the neural network training script.


If dataset is needed you can order one from here
https://www.buymeacoffee.com/CorvusCodex/

## Support my work & Research:<br>
>BTC: bc1q7wth254atug2p4v9j3krk9kauc0ehys2u8tgg3<br>
>ETH & BNB: 0x68B6D33Ad1A3e0aFaDA60d6ADf8594601BE492F0<br>
>Buy me a coffee: https://www.buymeacoffee.com/CorvusCodex

## Disclaimer

The code within this repository comes with no guarantee, the use of this code is your responsibility. I take NO responsibility and/or liability for how you choose to use any of the source code available here. By using any of the files available in this repository, you understand that you are AGREEING TO USE AT YOUR OWN RISK. Once again, ALL files available here are for EDUCATION and/or RESEARCH purposes ONLY.
Please keep in mind that while Footballai uses advanced machine learning techniques to predict next match result, there is no guarantee that its predictions will be accurate. Football results are inherently random and unpredictable, so it is important to use Footballai responsibly and not rely solely on its predictions.


MIT License

Copyright (c) 2023 CorvusCodex

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

Commit message:

Add cloning instructions to README

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://github.com/CorvusCodex/Football-ai-prediction/blob/main/footballailogo.png?raw=true">
</p>

## FootballAi

FootballAi is a football prediction artificial intelligence that uses machine learning to predict the winning team of the next football match.

## For people without technical experience you can buy the compiled standalone application for windows from here:
https://www.buymeacoffee.com/CorvusCodex/e/154775?from_page=extras

## Installation

To install FootballAi, you will need to have Python 3.x and the following libraries installed:
- numpy
- tensorflow
- keras
- art

You can install these libraries using pip by running the following command:

'''pip install numpy tensorflow keras art'''

## Usage

To use FootballAi, you will need to have a data file containing past football results. This file should be in a comma-separated format, with each row representing a single match and the numbers, rows are in new line without comma. Team 1 must be on the left and team 2 on the right side.

Once you have the data file, you can run the `footballai.py` script to train the model and generate prediction. The script will print the generated winner to the console.

### Automatically build the dataset from NFL results

The repository now includes `nfl_data_fetcher.py`, a helper utility that downloads historical head-to-head scores for any two NFL teams using ESPN's public schedule endpoint (no API key required). The script appends the scores to `data.txt` in the `team1_score,team2_score` format that the neural network expects.

Run the tool from the project root:

```bash
python nfl_data_fetcher.py
```

You will be presented with a numbered list of all 32 franchises. Pick the two teams you want to analyse and optionally enter the seasons to include (defaults to the last five years). After the results have been added to `data.txt` you can launch the training script immediately when prompted, or exit and run `python footballai.py` later.

The helper also exposes a few optional command-line flags so you can automate data pulls:

```bash
python nfl_data_fetcher.py --team1 1 --team2 2 --seasons 2020-2023
```

* `--team1` / `--team2` – select franchises by their numeric identifier (see the on-screen table).
* `--seasons` – fetch a comma separated list (`2021,2023`) or range (`2019-2022`) of NFL seasons.
* `--cache-dir` – path to a folder where downloaded ESPN schedule responses should be cached. When set (or when the `NFL_DATA_FETCHER_CACHE_DIR` environment variable is defined) the script reuses local JSON files instead of hitting the network. This repository ships with `sample_data/`, which contains a small cached example so the tool can be demonstrated in completely offline environments:

```bash
python nfl_data_fetcher.py --team1 1 --team2 2 --seasons 2022 --cache-dir sample_data --skip-train
```

Use `--skip-train` if you only want to update the dataset without immediately re-running the neural network training script.

## Cloning this repository

If you have not worked with Git before, follow these steps to copy the project to your computer:

1. [Install Git](https://git-scm.com/downloads) if it is not already available on your system.
2. Open a terminal (PowerShell on Windows, Terminal on macOS/Linux) and run:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/CorvusCodex/Football-ai-prediction.git
   cd Football-ai-prediction
   ```

3. (Optional) Add your own remote if you are using a fork:

   ```bash
   git remote add origin <your-repo-url>
   ```

With the project cloned locally you can edit files, run the training scripts, and push changes back to your own repository with the usual Git workflow (`git add`, `git commit`, and `git push`).


If dataset is needed you can order one from here
https://www.buymeacoffee.com/CorvusCodex/

## Support my work & Research:<br>
>BTC: bc1q7wth254atug2p4v9j3krk9kauc0ehys2u8tgg3<br>
>ETH & BNB: 0x68B6D33Ad1A3e0aFaDA60d6ADf8594601BE492F0<br>
>Buy me a coffee: https://www.buymeacoffee.com/CorvusCodex

## Disclaimer

The code within this repository comes with no guarantee, the use of this code is your responsibility. I take NO responsibility and/or liability for how you choose to use any of the source code available here. By using any of the files available in this repository, you understand that you are AGREEING TO USE AT YOUR OWN RISK. Once again, ALL files available here are for EDUCATION and/or RESEARCH purposes ONLY.
Please keep in mind that while Footballai uses advanced machine learning techniques to predict next match result, there is no guarantee that its predictions will be accurate. Football results are inherently random and unpredictable, so it is important to use Footballai responsibly and not rely solely on its predictions.


MIT License

Copyright (c) 2023 CorvusCodex

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
